.\" sccsid @(#)grsunprog.1	4.1 MAGIC (Berkeley) 11/29/85
.\"
.\" CONVENTIONS:  
.\"	italics:  things that are substituted for
.\"	boldface: characters that are typed as-is
.\"
.\"	EXAMPLE:  \fIfilename\fB.mag\fR
.\"	     or:  \fBcif \fR[\fIfile\fR]
.\"
.TH GRSUNPROG 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
grSunProg \- internal process for Magic's Sun 120 display driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgrSunProg \fIcolorWindowName textWindowName notifyPID requestFD pointFD buttonFD\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
GrSunProg is an internal program used by Magic when using the Sun 120
workstation's display.  This manual page is intended only for Magic
maintainers.
.PP
GrSunProg collects button pushes from the color window and sends them
over a pipe to Magic.  The program also responds to requests
from Magic for the mouse position.  In addition, this program 
tells Suntools to
forward characters typed in the color window directly to Magic's text window.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
All six arguments are required:
.RS
.TP 
.I colorWindowName
This is the name of the color window that magic is running under (such
as \fB/dev/win3\fR).  Magic normally opens up the color monitor with
a single, large, window on it.
.TP
.I textWindowName
This is the name of the text window that contains Magic's command log.
Keyboard events are forwarded to this window.
.TP
.I notifyPID
If this processID is not 0, then SIGIO signals are sent to this process when
there is data for it.
.TP
.I requestFD pointFD buttonFD
These are the file descriptors that grSunProg should use in its
interface (see below).  They are small integers printed as strings.
.RE
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Button pushes are sent out over file descriptor \fIbuttonFD\fR.  A button
push is encoded as two characters followed by two integers giving the
location of the button push.  The first character is either 'L', 'M', or 'R' 
depending on the button pushed: Left, Middle, or Right.  The next
character is either 'D' or 'U' depending on the action: Up or Down.
The two numbers are the X and Y coordinates of the button push.  
This string is followed by a newline.
Example: \fBLD 123 342\fR means that the left button was pushed down
at location (123, 342).  
.PP
GrSunProg sometimes receives a character from Magic over file
descriptor \fIrequestFD\fR.  If this character is an EOF, then the program
terminates.  If this character is an 'A', then grSunProg responds
with a 'P' and the current mouse coordinates over file 
descriptor \fIpointFD\fR.  
This string is followed by a newline.
Example: \fBP 101 23\fR means that the mouse is currently 
at location (101, 23).  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
magic(1) 
grsunprog2(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Robert N. Mayo
