.\" sccsid @(#)prleak.8	4.1 MAGIC (Berkeley) 11/29/85
.\"
.\" CONVENTIONS:  
.\"	italics:  things that are substituted for
.\"	boldface: characters that are typed as-is
.\"
.\"	EXAMPLE:  \fIfilename\fB.mag\fR
.\"	     or:  \fBcif \fR[\fIfile\fR]
.\"
.TH PRLEAK 8
.SH NAME
prleak \- aid for debugging programs using malloc/free
.SH SYNOPSIS
prleak
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-l
] [
.I objfile
[
.I tracefile
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prleak
is a tool for use in debugging programs that make use of
Magic's versions of \fImalloc\fR and \fIfree\fR.
It examines the trace file produced by special versions of
.I malloc
and
.I free
produced when they are compiled with the \fB\-DMALLOCTRACE\fR flag.
The output of prleak is the average allocation size, a list
of `leaky' allocations (blocks still allocated at program exit)
if \fB\-l\fR is specified,
a list of duplicate frees (blocks that the program attempted
to free after they had already been deallocated) if \fB\-d\fR
is specified, and a list of all calls to malloc and free
if \fB\-a\fR is specified.  If no switches are given, the
default action is as though \fB\-l\fR and \fB\-d\fR were
in effect.
.PP
For each entry output, both the address of the allocated
block and a stack backtrace at the time of the call to
.I malloc
or
.I free
are printed.
.I Prleak
attempts to use the namelist from
.I objfile
(\fBa.out\fR if no file is given)
to produce a symbolic backtrace.  If no namelist can be found,
the backtrace is printed in hex.
If
.I tracefile
is specified, the malloc trace is read from it; otherwise, it
is read from the file \fBmalloc.out\fR in the current directory.
.PP
An example output might be as follows:
.DS L
.sp
.nf
    \fBAverage allocation size = 12 bytes\fR

    \fB------\fR
    \fBLeaks:\fR
    \fB------\fR

    \fB0x11540      [11 bytes]\fR
            \fBat _foo+0x14\fR
            \fBcalled from ~main+026\fR

    \fB0x11556      [14 bytes]\fR
            \fBat _bar+0x50\fR
            \fBcalled from _foo+0x36\fR
            \fBcalled from ~main+0x26\fR

    \fB--------- ------\fR
    \fBDuplicate frees:\fR
    \fB--------- ------\fR

    \fB0x11556  \fR
            \fBat _bar+0x40\fR
            \fBcalled from _foo+0x36\fR
            \fBcalled from ~main+0x26\fR
.fi
.DE

.SH FILES
malloc.out

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIACM SIGPLAN Notices\fR, Vol 17, No 5 (May 1982), the
article by Barach and Taenzer.

.SH AUTHOR
Walter Scott

.SH BUGS
Local symbols (beginning with ``~'')
in the backtrace output should be tagged with
the source file to which they refer.
