.TH RUNSTATS 3
.UC 4
.SH NAME
runstats \- keep track of process time and memory utilization (in libmagicutils.a)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/times.h>
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.B #include "runstats.h"
.PP
.B "char *RunStats(flags, lastt, deltat)"
.B int flags;
.B struct tms *lastt, *deltat;
.PP
.B "char *RunStatsRealTime()"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I RunStats
collects information about a process's utilization of memory
and CPU time.
Depending on the flags provided, the following information is
returned:
.TP
.B RS_TCUM
cumulative user and system time
.TP
.B RS_TINCR
the difference between the current cumulative user and system
time and the values stored in the \fItms\fR struct pointed to
by \fIlastt\fR.  This struct is usually the one last passed
to \fIRunStats\fR when it was last called with \fBRS_TINCR\fR
as a flag.
.TP
.B RS_MEM
the number of bytes by which the data segment has grown past
its initial size.
.PP
\fIRunStats\fR returns a pointer to a statically allocated
character string of the form
``\fB[\fR\...\ \fIstuff\fR\ ...\fB]\fR'',
where \fIstuff\fR contains the information specified by the flags.
Times are of the form \fImins\fR:\fIsecsu\ mins\fR:\fIsecss\fR,
where the first time is the amount of user CPU time this process has
used, and the second time is the amount of system time used.
Memory is specified by a string of the form \fIN\fBk\fR, where \fIN\fR
is the number of kilobytes by which the data segment has grown past
its initial size.
.PP
If \fBRS_TINCR\fR is specified, the parameters \fIlastt\fR and \fIdeltat\fR
are set if they are non-NULL.
Both point to \fItms\fR structs;
the one pointed to by \fIdeltat\fR is set to the difference between
the current user/system time and the time given in the \fItms\fR struct
pointed to by \fIlastt\fR; the one pointed to by \fIlastt\fR is then set to
the current user/system time.
.PP
.I RunStatsRealTime
reports the real time, both since the first invocation and incremental
since the last invocation.
It returns a statically allocated string of the form
\fIx\fB:\fIxx\fB.\fIx\fR \fIx\fB:\fIxx\fB.\fIx\fR,
where the first number is the amount of elapsed real time since the
first call to \fIRunStatsRealTime\fR,
and the second is the amount of elapsed
real time since the latest call.

.SH BUGS
The interfaces to \fIRunStats\fR and \fIRunStatsRealTime\fR should
really be consistent.

.SH SEE ALSO
magicutils\|(3)
