.TH SIM2SPICE 1 11/17/82
.UC
.SH NAME
sim2spice \- convert from .sim format to spice format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sim2spice
[\-d defs] file.sim
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sim2spice
reads a file in \fB.sim\fR format and creates a new file in spice format.
The file contains just a list of transistors and capacitors,
the user must add the transistor models and simulation information.
The new file is appended with the tag \fB.spice\fR.
One other file is created, which is a list of \fB.sim\fR node names
and their corresponding spice node numbers.
This file is tagged \fB.names\fR.
.PP
.I Defs
is a file of definitions.
A definition can be used to set up equivelences
between \fB.sim\fR node names and spice node numbers.
The form of this type of definition is:
.RS
\fBset  \fIsim_name  spice_number  \fR[\fItech\fR]
.RE
The \fItech\fR field is optional.
In NMOS, a special node, `BULK', is used to represent the substrate node.
For CMOS, two special nodes, 'NMOS' and 'PMOS',
represent the substrate nodes for the 'n' and 'p' transistors, repectively.
For example, for NMOS the \fB.sim\fR node `GND' corresponds to spice node 0,
`Vdd' corresponds to spice node 1,
and `BULK' corresponds to spice node 2.
The \fIdefs\fR file for this set up would look like this:
.RS
.nf
set  GND  0  nmos
set  Vdd  2  nmos
set  BULK  3  nmos
.fi
.RE
A definition also allows you to set a correspondence
between \fB.sim\fR transistor types and and spice transistor types.
The form of this definition is:
.RS
\fBdef  \fIsim_trans  spice_trans  \fR[\fItech\fR]
.RE
Again, the \fItech\fR field is optional.
For NMOS these definitions would look as follows:
.RS
.nf
def  e  ENMOS  nmos
def  d  DNMOS  nmos
.fi
.RE
Definitions may also be placed in the `.cadrc' file,
but the definitions in the \fIdefs\fR file overrides those in the `.cadrc' file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ext2sim(1), magic(1), spice(1), cadrc(5), ext(5), sim(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Fitzpatrick
CMOS fixes by Neil Soiffer
.SH BUGS
The only pre-defined technologies are
\fBnmos\fR, \fBcmos-pw\fR, and \fBcmos\fR (the same as \fBcmos-pw\fR).
Only one definition file is allowed.
